Maria Montessori: The mother of the Montessori pedagogy
“Do not tell them how to do it. Show them how to do it.” (Maria Montessori)
Mária Kériné Harnos
montessori
“Do not tell them how to do it. Show them how to do it.”
<p>Montessori schools have spread throughout the world. The first
Montessori school in Hungary was established in 1991. But who was
Maria Montessori exactly, the founder of this pedagogical method?
Maria Montessori (1871-1952) was the first woman medical doctor in
Italy, and she was also a teacher and psychologist. The Montessori
psychological method was also named after her. She studied engineering
then medicine. She was the first woman to get a degree in medicine at
an Italian university. In 1898 she was assigned to establish an
institute for students with special needs. She organized and lead the
roman Scuola Magistrale Ortofrenica institution and she was interested
in how her experience could be used in case of children without
special needs. Therefore, she opened a Children’s House (Casa dei
Bambini) in 1907 for children in kindergarten in the outskirts of
Rome.</p>
<p>Due to her commitment and willpower, a new system has emerged,
which puts emphasis and concentrates on accepting and helping the
other person, enhancing creativity, satisfying and putting the needs
of children first. She developed a new and child-centered educational
method. Every step of her pedagogical tool aims at developing skills,
getting to know the environment, valuing and helping other people,
loving knowledge and beauty. She used motivating game and working
tools (Montessori tools), which help via the usage of human senses.
She was the first to use furniture in kindergarten (chairs, tables,
shelves) that were smaller in size so that they could fit children’s
size. She also applied games to a great extent, which games were
accessible by children and they could take it from the selves, but
they were also responsible for putting it back on the shelves
themselves.</p>
<p>Montessori has revolutionized the old notion of teaching and
learning and she believes that you can only gain real knowledge by
experience. Direct teaching is not the task of the teacher. However,
the teacher should create an environment in which each child can get
to know the nature and characteristics of different things and
phenomenon. This way, the child does not only acquire knowledge, but
their skills and personality develop: independence, creativity,
problem recognition, problem-solving abilities, thinking, and skills
to cooperate.</p>
<p>As Maria Montessori stated:</p>
<blockquote>Never help a child with a task at which he feels he can
succeed.</blockquote>
<blockquote>The greatest sign of success for a teacher... is to be
able to say, ’The children are now working as if I did not
exist.'</blockquote>
<blockquote>One test of the correctness of educational procedure is
the happiness of the child.</blockquote>
<p>A film was made about the life of the well-known teacher and about
the spreading of her method. The title of the film is “Maria
Montessori: A life for children” (Maria Montessori: una vita per i
bambini).</p>
